PART ONE
CHAPTER ONE
The Trail of the Meat.
DARK SPRUCE FOREST frowned on either side the frozen
waterway. The trees had been stripped by a recent wind of their
white covering of the frost, and they seemed to lean toward each
other, black and ominous, in the fading light. A vast silence
reigned over the land. The land itself was a desolation, lifeless,
without movement, so lone and cold that the spirit of it was not
even that of sadness.
There was a hint in it of laughter, but of a laughter more terrible
than any sadnessa laughter that was mirthless as the smile of the
Sphinx, a laughter cold as the frost and partaking of the grimness
of infallibility. It was the masterful and incommunicable wisdom
of eternity laughing at the futility of life and the effort of life.
It was the Wild, the savage, frozen-hearted Northland Wild.
But there was life, abroad in the land and defiant. Down the frozen
waterway toiled a string of wolfish dogs. Their bristly fur was
rimed with frost. Their breath froze in the air as it left their mouths,
spouting forth in spumes of vapor that settled upon the hair of
their bodies and formed into crystals of frost. Leather harness was
on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which
dragged along behind. The sled was without runners. It was made
of stout birchbark, and its full surface rested on the snow. The front
end of the sled was turned up, like a scroll in order to force down
and under the bore of soft snow that surged like a wave before it.
On the sled, securely lashed, was a long and narrow oblong box.
There were other things on the sled-blankets, an axe, and a
coffeepot and frying-pan; but prominent, occupying most of the
space, was the long and narrow oblong box.

In advance of the dogs, on wide snowshoes, toiled a man. At the
rear of the sled toiled a second man. On the sled, in the box, lay a
third man whose toil was over- a man whom the Wild had
conquered and beaten down until he would never move nor
struggle again. It is not the way of the Wild to like movement.

Life is an offense to it, for life is movement; and the Wild aims
always to destroy movement. It freezes the water to prevent it
running to the sea; it drives the sap out of the trees till they are
frozen to their mighty hearts; and most ferociously and terribly of
all does the Wild harry and crush into submission man- man, who6
is the most restless of life, ever in revolt against the dictum that all
movement must in the end come to the cessation of movement.




